Premium health insurance plans often
sound similar on paper, but their DNA
tells a different story. Last year, we
reviewed ICIC Lombard Elevate and
highlighted its impressive add-on
ecosystem and unique features like
surrogate coverage. Now, with the 2025
updates and refined performance metrics,
it's time to revisit this plan and see
how it stacks up in today's competitive
landscape. The core promise remains the
same though. Comprehensive coverage with
extensive customization options. The
devil, as always, is in the details. Hi
folks, I'm Shashank and you're watching
DTO insurance. We're backed by Zerodar
helped over 8 lakh Indians navigate the
maze of health and term insurance with
honest and unbiased advice through our
idea certified advisers. We help you
compare plans and select the right one
for you and your family and we never
spam or we never forceell to you. If
you'd like our personalized help
understanding this plan or any others,
then book a free call with our advisers
with the link in the description. It
just takes 2 minutes. All right, today
we're breaking down the 2025 version of
ICI Salumbar Elevate in complete detail.
We'll examine the insurers updated
performance metrics, plan eligibility,
core features, waiting periods, the
extensive add-on ecosystem, discount
structures, and premium analysis as
well. We'll also compare it with leading
alternatives to give you the complete
picture and by the end you will know
exactly whether this plan deserves a
spot on your short list. All right. ICS
Lombard operates as a joint venture
between India's ICICI Bank and Canada's
Fairfax Holdings. With over 20 years in
the insurance space, they focus on
customer centricity and digital
innovation across motor, health, fire,
and liability insurance products. Now,
let's talk about the performance
metrics, which is the average of the
data between 2021 to 24. The average CSR
over the last 3 years stands at 85.24%
24% notably below the industry average
of 89.76. The incurred claims ratio is
around 83 slightly above the industry
average of 82.28%. However, they perform
well on the complaint side because they
just have 8.96 complaints per 10,000
claims settled. That's significantly
better than industry average of 22.
Their network includes over 10,200
hospitals across India. Now let's move
on to the plan eligibility and coverage
options. Adults can enter from age 18
with lifelong renewability guaranteed.
Dependent children are covered from 91
days up to 30 years. Policy tenurs are
highly flexible 1 2 3 4 or even 5 years.
Some insured options are extensive and
ranging from 5 lakhs to unlimited
coverage including specific options like
7 1/2 10 15 20 25 1 CR and 3CR. Coverage
is available as individual or family
floater for up to two adults and three
children. Now let me walk you through
the core features. Room rent is
restricted to single private rooms only.
So yes, there is a room rent limit.
There is no co-ayment and no disease by
sub limits. Prehospization is extensive
at 90 days and 180 days post
hospitalization. Daycare treatment,
domicillary care and treatments are
covered up to summon insured. The bonus
structure provides 20% increase annually
up to 100% of baseur regardless of
claims and most importantly restoration
is available unlimited times for any
illnesses. Now coming to waiting
periods, there's a 30-day initial
waiting period with accidents covered
from day one. Specific illness's waiting
period is two years which is standard
but notably just 90 days for diabetes,
hypertension and cardiac conditions if
not diagnosed as pre-existing at
purchase and yes PD waiting period is
standard at 3 years. The specific
illness list covers typical conditions
but not limited to gastric surgeries,
gastric ulcers, hernas, cataracts,
arthritis, kidney stones and various
surgical procedures. Now for the
standout built-in features that
differentiate elevate surrogate and
usite cover that provides up to 5 lakh
rupees for surrogate mothers and usite
donor expenses. Now this is very rare on
the market. Nursing at home pays up to
2,000 rupees daily for post
hospitalization nursing care for up to
10 days. Wellness benefit offers up to
30% renewal premium discount for
participating in their wellness program.
Beriatric surgery coverage is also there
in this plan with a 2-year waiting
period reducible to 30 days with
add-ons. There's also two-hour
hospitalization coverage with medical
expenses for hospitalization lasting
just up to two hours minimum. Now with
the add-on ecosystem, this is pretty
extensive and I think this is the most
standout feature of ICIC eleate because
they have 29 different options. You have
key ones like reduction in PD from 3
years to 12 to 24 months. Claim
protector for consumables coverage.
Power booster providing 100% cumulative
bonus annually. Room modifier to upgrade
from single private room to any room or
twin sharing. Jump start reducing PD
waiting to just 30 days for common
conditions like diabetes and
hypertension. Metary coverage with
waiting period reduction options
worldwide cover for international
treatment and critical illness coverage
up to 50 lakh rupees. Discount
structures include multi-tenure
discounts up to 15%, credit score based
discount up to 15% and early renewal
discount of 2.5%. All right, folks. If
you're evaluating whether Elevate's
extensive customization options align
with your family's specific health
needs, our advisers can help you
navigate the add-on combinations that
make sense for your situation. Book a
free consultation. The link is in the
description. All right, now let's talk
premiums for Delhi with 10 lakh
coverage, including claim protector and
room modifier add-on. Now, for a
30-year-old individual, the cost is
9,500. For two adults aed 30, it's
13,900. And adding a child brings the
family premium to 18,500. Now these
figures include GST and represent
Comrade positioning in the market. When
compared to alternatives, Elevate is
significantly more accessible than HFC
ergo secure at 16,800 for individuals
and care supreme at 13,900 making it the
most budget friendly among premium
comprehensive plans. All right, now let
me give you detail
elevate for 2025. You can check this
document out which is linked in the
description. Here's what we appreciate
about ICIC elevate. The extensive add-on
ecosystem provides exceptional
customization flexibility for diverse
health needs. Unique features like
surrogate coverage and 2-hour
hospitalization addresses specific
market gaps. The pricing remains highly
competitive making comprehensive
coverage accessible. Multi-tenure
options up to 5 years provides excellent
long-term planning flexibility and
shield against inflation. The jump start
add-ons 30-day waiting period reduction
for common conditions is genuinely
valuable. Now where this plan has some
considerations, the claim settlement
ratio is at 85.24%
and this lags behind industry averages
and premium competitors. Room rent
restriction to single private room
limits treatment flexibility unless
upgraded via add-ons. The bonus
structure at 20% annually is modest
compared to competitors offering 50 to
100% increase. The complexity of 29
add-ons can be overwhelming for
firsttime buyers to navigate
effectively. There you go folks. That
was the breakdown of updated IC Lombard
Elevate plan for 2025. The fundamental
preposition remains strong. Extensive
customization and competitive pricing,
but the operational metric suggests
considering alternatives. And remember
folks that no plan is universally the
best. What works for you depends on your
needs. If you're looking to understand
how this plan compares with other
comprehensive options or how specific
add-ons align with your health needs,
book a free consultation with our
advisers at DTO. Our advisor is
completely free and the link is in the
description. All right, folks. That was
it from me. If you like this video,
please like, share, and subscribe. This
is the easiest and the simplest way to
help DTO make India financially and
insurance aware. I'll see you in the
next video. Until then, happy insurance
hunting.